---
title: "Some Great Resources and Role Models"
date: 2024-02-14 2:12:00 +0800
categories: [Resources, Things That Might Be Useful for You]
tags: [Things That Might Be Useful for You]
author: 00
math: true
mermaid: true
comments: true
pin: true
---

### [Survival Guide for Shanghai Jiao Tong University](https://survivesjtu.gitbook.io/survivesjtumanual/)

The Survival Guide for Shanghai Jiao Tong University was written by a group of undergraduate students from SJTU in 2008. Over the past 12 years, countless SJTU students have benefited from it. However, some content may be outdated, as the original author team mainly consisted of doctoral candidates studying abroad. This project aims to compile it into a GitBook for long-term maintenance. We hope to provide some assistance to future SJTU students, especially incoming freshmen. Special thanks to the original authors of this book!

### [Crest of the Wave Club](https://confused-gym-8fc.notion.site/dc7ab3f3ddad46fea4de7ff995a7a4ab)

The Crest of the Wave Club, initiated by KK, is a lifelong learning club and a podcast program hosted by KK. The name "Crest of the Wave" comes from the book by Professor Wu Jun, set on the eve of the release of GPT-4 in 2023, standing at the forefront of the revolutionary technological changes brought about by artificial intelligence (LLM, large language models). Young people who want to grasp the tide of the times, capture the value of new technologies and the upward path, leading to the road to freedom (including but not limited to financial freedom, as well as the freedom to health, time, and will). In awe of technology and the exploration of the infinity of life, we conduct public learning lectures (practicing the concept of learning by sharing, jointly building a Notion knowledge base) and interview-style podcast programs (deeply excavating individuals with personality and creativity in this era) to complete an interesting social experiment.

### [Independent Investor - Silicon Valley - Wang Chuan](https://chuan.us/)

(All articles are the personal opinions of the author and do not constitute investment advice. Investment involves risks, so caution is advised when entering the market.)

### [ZYX50 @VicodinXYZ](https://weibo.com/u/1977585731)

"My Life Beliefs"

As a summary of a stage in life, I have condensed into 50 statements everything I have been thinking about over the years through repeated failures, confusion, and changes. They are all my personal experiences, which are likely to be very biased and erroneous. However, they have also truly become a part of me:

1. No matter how "success" is defined, only a very small number of people achieve it.
2. Therefore, one cannot achieve success by doing what the majority of people are doing.
3. A person's level is the average of the five people they interact with the most.
4. The lower limit of a person's level is determined by the five worst people they learn from.
5. Learn only from the best people; others don't know what they're doing. Ignore their "advice."
6. The first task of decision-making is to create enough good options for oneself. Most decision failures come from repeatedly deliberating among several inadequate options.
7. For daily small decisions, decision speed is more important than decision quality; don't procrastinate. For major and difficult-to-reverse decisions, gather enough information to try to ensure correctness.
8. Don't make judgments and decisions lightly before reaching the threshold of information collection. It's okay to say "I don't know" to yourself and others more often.
9. Not every problem in life needs to be solved; coexisting with problems is a normal part of life. Focus your energy on important things.
10. Don't equate decision results with decision quality. Learn to establish your own decision-making system.
11. Look for opportunities with "asymmetric returns," those where the loss is minimal if failed but the return is huge if successful.
12. Better opportunities offer "a little linear return if failed, but huge exponential return if successful." Of course, such opportunities are very rare.
13. Changes in a person's circumstances are often nonlinear. The process of accumulation and waiting is difficult to endure, which is one of the reasons why many people cannot change.
14. Therefore, patience is a very valuable quality.
15. Most of a person's circumstances are governed by luck, but luck can be influenced.
16. It's difficult for a person to acquire wealth by selling their unit time.
17. Wealth comes from the use of leverage; common levers include the internet, human capital, capital, reputation, time, etc.
18. The accumulation of wealth depends not only on how many times you make the right decisions but also on how high your bet is when making the right decision.
19. The height of the bet depends on how confident you are. Confidence comes from truly understanding something.
20. The accumulation of wealth comes from indispensability. Learn to make yourself indispensable, just as a company needs to build its moat.
21. Often the best competitive advantage is "what others find troublesome but you don't."
22. Think in reverse: to invest successfully, first understand what causes investment failures; to live happily, first see what leads to unhappiness in life.
23. In chaotic, open, and random systems, trying to "reduce errors" is much more effective than "pursuing correctness."
24. It is impossible for a person to accurately understand the world with one set of thinking. Broadly absorb knowledge and establish multiple thinking models as a prerequisite for success.
25. Learn to constantly jump to a higher level to eliminate problems rather than spend a lot of energy solving them. Learn to make problems no longer problems.
26. In many fields, you are rewarded not for overcoming difficult problems but for bypassing them.
27. When two things seem somewhat contradictory, there is almost always something higher that unites them. Continuously seek, and you can discover what the meta-rules of the game are.
28. Spend most of your time mastering the meta-rules of the game.
29. Cooperation leads to competition, while competition leads to contention. Cooperation is positive-sum, while contention is zero-sum. Engage in positive-sum games more often in life.
30. Believe in the law of large numbers. Even if something has only a 10% chance of success, after trying 20 times, the success rate is ninety percent.
31. Risk is difficult to measure, perceive, and predict; that's why it's called "risk."
32. One important way to manage risk is to make multiple bets with low or negative correlations.
33. Another important way to manage risk is not to play games where you cannot afford the worst outcome, no matter how low the probability of that worst outcome is.
34. Most so-called mood problems, state problems, and creativity problems are issues of physical health and energy.
35. Eating healthily, exercising regularly, and ensuring sleep can almost lead people out of any dilemma.
36. Except for some extreme accidents, most difficulties are good things in hindsight.
37. Every difficulty is an opportunity to explore and improve oneself; don't waste them.
38. Accumulate small confidence and positive feedback in daily life, so you will be more calm and confident in the face of major choices.
39. Willpower hardly exists. Instead of trying to increase your willpower, create a better environment for yourself so you don't need to rely on willpower.
40. Surround yourself with things related to "truth, goodness, and beauty." Their value corresponds to this order.
41. After solving survival problems, a person's sense of happiness is mainly determined by the quality of their relationships.
42. Love is not something unique to couples; it is a state of life and also a way you choose to communicate with the world.
43. Sex and animal instincts are important components of human beings, and there is no need to feel ashamed of them.
44. "Being honest with oneself" is the most underrated quality. A person who is extremely honest is invincible.
45. Learn to self-observe without judgment; this is the starting point for all change.
46. People know many truths but still cannot change because "the brain knows" and "the body knows" are completely different things.
47. If you want to help others, take care of yourself first. It is unsustainable to help others by consuming yourself.
48. Any obsession, even if it seems good, should be let go of.
49. The most important things in life cannot be taught but can be learned.
50. The limit of Tao lies in breaking through with the power of will. Life is a self-fulfilling prophecy.
