---
title: "E04 1 LizZy&KK: Journey of Transition and Inner World Construction (Highly Recommended!!👍)"
date: 2024-02-16 5:58:00 +0800
categories: [Life Beliefs, Podcast]
tags: [Podcast]
author: 00
math: true
mermaid: true
comments: true
img_path: /postsPic/
pin: true
---
【Hosts of This Episode】<br>
Lizzy (Finance/Internet/Securities/Banking at CUHK)<br>
KK (Data Science/Algorithm/Quantitative/Artificial Intelligence/Computer Vision at HKUST)<br>
【Contents of This Episode】<br>
00:00:50 Introduction: Background and Self-Introduction of the Podcast<br>
00:05:59 An Interesting Interview Experience: When KK Interviewed Lizzy's Former Unicorn Employer<br>
00:09:00 Lizzy's Inner Drive: From Fulfilling External Expectations to Building Self-Identity<br>
00:19:30 Running Away from Small Town, Path to Transition: KK's Inner Drive Inspired by Novels?<br>
00:34:40 From Seeking Validation Externally to Reflecting Inwardly: Drawing Strength from Friends Around the World<br>
00:47:00 From Insecurity to Confidence: The Process of Building Confidence and How It Shapes Perception<br>
01:00:30 Transition Journey: Starting from Creating a GitHub Account, Gaining Positive Feedback through Practice<br>
01:31:00 Expectations for 2023, Starting with Writing New Year's Resolutions<br>
bgm: Xiaoxia's "My Beautiful"<br>

### Inviting KK to Share Transition Experience

kk: Undergrad at SJTU in Biomedical Engineering, Master's at CUHK in Data Science<br>
In 2022, interned while studying: first two stints in computer vision, third stint as a quantitative researcher, planning to pursue a PhD in AI next<br>

Deep into MBTI research 😂<br>

One amusing point - "If I could do it again, I'd be a programmer!" 😄<br>

Because Lizzy worked in an internet company before, and KK had interacted more with female programmers<br>
kk: Realized that the essence of excellence is similar among outstanding individuals, they pursue tasks with great zeal<br>
lizi: Highly interested in CV, AI, and admires KK's high energy<br>

kk: Autumn recruitment sharing: Recommended by mutual friends, had two written tests initially, then a coincidence, magically got an interview. The first interview went smoothly, the second was with a programmer from Peking University who hadn't been at the job for long, I applied for an internship in CV algorithms. Had a bit of a hiccup in the second round, but with the hints from the guy, the interview proceeded smoothly. When discussing research, the interviewer praised me as very smart, the most satisfactory among today's interviewees, haha. Waited a long time for the third round, but ended up being rejected.<br>
Felt deceived, it was a Beijing unicorn, WLB, and the salary was very lucrative, then after the internship ended, returned to Shenzhen, almost became Lizzy's colleague, very fateful.<br>

Indeed, the entire internet environment is quite cold<br>

### Gathering topics that friends might be interested in:<br>
#### 1. How does KK maintain inner drive?

This long-lasting drive, the early drive in life might come from parents telling you to study hard, which type of drive is the ultimate one?<br>
kk: Especially loved reading romance novels in middle school<br>
lizi: Many students face external pressures during their student days. Actually, even 20 years ago, in the years before, I was driven by a trend in the environment. At that time, I didn't have much of my own identity. Perhaps I was a relatively talented and self-conscious child. I was quite obedient as a child but also had a strong sense of self-discipline. I was somewhat free-range as a child but still performed well academically.<br>
So, I smoothly reached what is considered a high level. However, in recent years, there has been a significant change, which may come from the transition from university to society, leading to a process of doubting, deducing, and rebuilding one's view of the world and self-pursuit. Therefore, my drive now is not just about pursuing worldly success such as material possessions, education, and jobs.<br>
Of course, these things cannot be completely abandoned; material possessions are essential.<br>
I am willing to pursue worldly success, but not completely worldly. If I were to become a boss, it's not for money, but to make real changes and creations, to influence a small part of the world with my own power.<br>

kk: I think my current drive is very similar to yours. I believe I will definitely start a business in the future because a person's influence and returns are directly proportional. And now, I view my friends from the perspective of entrepreneurs, for example, some friends may be suitable for certain roles.<br>
Hahaha, from the CEO's perspective.<br>

lizi: The second point I think is about constructing and pursuing the self. During student days, one is more concerned with external things and rarely considers what they really want. In the past two years, I've been exploring more about myself, such as how my values are constructed. It's about maintaining a balance between internal and external aspects.<br>

kk: This is what I mean when I say you have a kind of self-ordering.<br>

lizi: The third point is the pursuit of truth. But I think it reflects the essence of wanting infinite exploratory power on this world, having different perspectives and observations of the world will lead to a deeper understanding of the world. This is a real observation, conclusion, and experience. It's quite interesting.<br>
To summarize about the self and the world.<br>
The fourth point is I like to observe humans 👀 Hahaha, after falling into nihilism, I found a way to coexist with nihilism, which is observing humans. Seeing the interesting and absurd is fascinating. Of course, everyone is ordinary, but each individual is also unique and constitutes their own universe. When you pay attention to individuals, trying to understand a person is interesting. In this process, I also see more of myself, helping myself to better deal with people with different personalities. This is also a way for me to interact with the world. It gives me more of a "compassionate" heart, not saintly, but rather a more gentle understanding of each individual's ability, more diverse and inclusive.<br>

kk: Because I grew up in a small town in Sichuan, I probably left the province for the first time after high school. At that time, maybe streaming media was not so developed. My favorite thing to do was reading and writing, especially romance novels. I read a novel that had a significant impact on me back then. Both the male and female leads were very smart kids, both won awards in mathematics and physics in high school, both were admitted to Tsinghua University, then the male decided to go abroad, and the female also agreed to apply. At that time, he said a sentence: Most people in the world haven't put in the effort


### Conversation Transcript Translation:

**kk**: Yes, one of my roommates in college described me as being in a process of extreme self-confidence and extreme self-doubt. Because I was chubby when I was young, I experienced a lot of scrutiny. Then, my senior brother also had weight issues, and he was unwilling to recall the past. But he also said that the process of being overweight definitely didn't happen overnight. Because I didn't look good from a young age, but I hoped to gain attention through academic achievements, which may be human nature. So, that year, when I was 21, I took a lot of photos of myself. A teacher at my university told me that I seemed to have posted a lot of pictures that year and looked thinner. Then, in the following year, when I was 22, I didn't take many photos. It's because I wasn't as lacking anymore, and I had reduced my attention to this aspect a lot. But indeed, the process of building my confidence was quite late. But at that time, I was still not relaxed enough. I had to study every day. But now I'm not that singular. It's multidimensional. For example, I received some recognition in my career, like meeting very good mentors who encouraged me and gave me a raise, haha. I remember the people I interned with were all graduates of Tsinghua University and Peking University. They were also Ph.D. graduates from prestigious schools. And in quantitative private equity firms like this, the educational threshold is also very high. And I feel that I have received a lot of recognition. So, my salary became the highest in the company, which is why I hope to pursue a Ph.D. later. I think I may have confirmed that my work ability is okay. So, I reduced my attention to appearance. And in terms of being a blogger, I also received a lot of attention from people. Some people would DM me saying, "In your twenties, you can think through many problems clearly, and they themselves are people who have experienced a lot and are very outstanding." Then, when my uncle read the year-end summary I wrote when I was 23, he is a relatively senior official, he also wrote a comment for me. I think he has experienced some ups and downs in his career, and he can still resonate with what I wrote. These things gradually gave me some confidence. My goal for this year is to definitely publish a paper, which has made my psychological state more stable. I won't care so much about others' attention to my appearance anymore. I think this is a very insignificant concern for me. Now I feel that my core is relatively stable, and a small deficiency won't cause the collapse of the building. I have become more and more self-focused, and I don't care about others' opinions anymore. I found that I have always been a person who likes to express and think a lot, but I remember some people would say, "Why do you have so many thoughts every day?" Now that I have grown up, the people I admire are those with a very strong sense of self. And I think Lizi is the kind of person who would post some words on Moments without caring about others' opinions. In high school, there was a person who said to me, "I feel pressure when I'm with you because you talk about growing up every day, haha."

**lizi**: What I feel about some people is that if I feel that I can't change their minds, I won't discuss with them. When any two people meet, there will be someone who will confront you. If you show strong confidence, others cannot harm you. We are all looking for easy targets to bully. My confidence comes from feeling that my inner world is rich, so as long as I'm not unreasonably ugly, I won't be greatly affected, and I can accept everything.

#### 2. Let's Talk About the Story of Transitioning

Haha, let's talk about transitioning issues now.

**kk**: When I read novels, the male protagonist is usually an EE major, so I didn't know what major it was at the time. I was determined to either do AI or finance, haha. Actually, I wanted to study computer science in college, but at that time, when submitting my preferences, most of them were through early admission. At that time, I could choose from Zhejiang University, Renmin University, University of Science and Technology of China, etc. It was quite accidental that our preferences were submitted early. I didn't plan to fill it in, but a senior called me and asked if I should consider Shanghai Jiao Tong University. So, I filled it in. Later, each of us took a course called Industrial Practice, which was really starting from scratch, like forging a hammer from scratch, just like starting a fire, haha.

Actually, I think there was a bit of impulsiveness. I signed up for Shanghai Jiao Tong University, and at that time, my score was slightly higher than the admission line, although not much. Seventy percent was based on the college entrance examination, and thirty percent was based on the subject distribution. I did well in the subject distribution, but it accounted for a small proportion. I couldn't go to the School of Electronic Information and went to the School of Mechanical Engineering instead. Then I switched to BLE later. At that time, I also studied digital and analog circuits, C++, I was like Li Feifei and Andrew Ng, and AI started to become popular in my mind around 2017. I really wanted to work in this field. I transitioned during the summer vacation of my sophomore year. I learned Python and CV, but I think the most important thing I learned was GitHub. I think many students from formal education backgrounds have already participated in open-source projects early on.

Because our major was biomedical engineering, at that time, I wanted to learn Python-related stuff because now AI is basically Python plus some deep learning frameworks. So, I chose a machine learning course, but I consciously pushed myself to choose some hardcore courses. Around 2019, I probably started self-learning a lot of machine learning-related stuff. But what I can advise now is that I think the most important practice is doing projects. You must write your own code. I recommend tutorials because the first step in transitioning definitely gets stuck in setting up the environment. At that time, I came into contact with some things like Conda, virtual machines, etc. But now you probably build on remote servers and use SSH to connect. I think it's different from humanities subjects. Writing code gives you very clear and intuitive feedback, including doing LeetCode problems, which brings back the feeling of being a problem solver.

Then in my senior year, I followed the lab to do some research, miscellaneous tasks. At that time, when I applied to do my thesis at the Chinese University of Hong Kong, it was also related to deep learning. I slowly explored and learned a lot of Python content in my graduate studies. I think what graduate studies gave me is systematic learning. Although Python is a scripting language and is very simple, I learned it comprehensively. And there are some blockchain, data mining, which made my skills in this area more refined during my first year of graduate study. 

I am especially grateful to my supervisor for giving me the opportunity to do an internship, and I feel that internships progress very quickly. You have to update every day. I also












