---
title: "Analysis of SaaS Companies"
date: "2024-02-14 2:12:00 +0800"
categories: [Life Beliefs, Podcast]
tags: [Podcast]
author: 00
math: true
mermaid: true
comments: true
img_path: /postsPic/
---
## SAAS Companies: A Mirage

### Revenue Model of SAAS

Users tend to prefer freemium models, resulting in low conversion rates for many software products with large user bases. However, with the powerful capabilities of GPT-4, the willingness to pay may be higher. Nowadays, successful games rely on free-to-play models with high-value add-ons, such as popular titles like "King of Glory" and "PUBG Mobile."

The revenue model tends to lean towards B2C rather than B2B, with examples like Notion and Adobe possibly adopting a hybrid B2B-to-C model.

### The Bullish Market of 2023: The Davis Double Tap

Recently, the stock prices of companies like Microsoft, NVIDIA, and Meta have reached historic highs. Despite the pressure on growth companies in a tightening interest rate environment, looking back at some successful SaaS companies like certain database companies, Unity, and Zoom (with stock prices surging 10-50 times), thanks to the Davis Double Tap, revenue has led to exponential growth in stock prices.

### Fierce Competition and Lack of Core Barriers in SAAS

The industry is vast, posing challenges such as in the database sector or online meetings. Small companies find it challenging to compete with giants like Google or Microsoft, who can afford to engage in price wars.

The absence of unique functionalities in certain products raises questions about the existence of technical barriers. Classic examples of technological barriers include NVIDIA's significant lead over competitors, not only in terms of technology but also ecosystem, requiring a substantial advantage to reap massive profits.

### Identifying Genuine Customer Needs before Developing SAAS

It's crucial to ascertain genuine market needs before embarking on SAAS development. For instance, despite the availability of databases, not all companies may require them. Ultimately, the viability hinges on whether there's actual revenue generation potential.

### SAAS: A Subset of Large Corporations

Products offered by SAAS companies may constitute just a small fraction of a larger corporation's portfolio. For instance, Dropbox was a pioneer, but when major players like Google Drive and Office 365 entered the market with integrated cloud storage, relying on existing distribution channels, these smaller companies faced stiff competition.

### Some Special Cases: Ecological Niches of Big Companies?

Companies like Microsoft offer a suite of products that can be integrated with services like Teams. Notion's expansion into calendar services demonstrates diversification. However, Amazon's abandonment of developing its team service in favor of acquiring Slack showcases cost-saving priorities.

### High Expenses in Marketing and Personnel for SAAS

High expenses in areas like Google ranking bids and hiring numerous sales representatives for promotions and discounts often outweigh R&D expenditures. SAAS companies incur substantial costs in sales and marketing, sometimes surpassing those of research and development.

### Challenges in Selling to Large Enterprises

Selling to major corporations like Microsoft proves challenging due to their comprehensive offerings. Small companies might find it economically unfeasible due to high acquisition costs, prolonged decision-making processes, and protracted negotiations.

### SAAS: Not a Highly Positioned Category

Despite the influx of capital, recent developments like Oppo's chip revenue returning to normal indicate a market logic where salaries revert to the 80/20 principle, aligning with market norms.

### Revenue Discrepancy per Capita

Examining public companies' financial reports reveals significant revenue generation potential per capita, such as Salesforce's ability to generate substantial gross profits per employee.

### Technical Admiration?

While technical advancements are crucial, excessively complex products may deter users. Success depends more on users' choices than technical superiority. Companies like ByteDance and Pinduoduo have demonstrated success by focusing on user adoption rather than technical sophistication.

### Company Discussions

Monetizing mobile games is easier than AAA titles, as demonstrated by Unity's layoffs despite being a leading SAAS provider in the gaming sector. Zoom faces challenges due to slow growth rates, indicating a need for AI integration or expansion into multilingual markets.

### Leveraging Large Models?

However, accessing large companies' APIs for model integration may prove challenging. Companies like Google and Microsoft have robust infrastructure, making it difficult for competitors to rely solely on these APIs. For instance, Zoom's integration of large models might require purchasing services from AWS.

### Dropbox: A Tale of Woe

Dropbox's stock price struggles post-IPO due to entrenched competition from the likes of Microsoft and Google. Despite being an early player, its utility diminished as competitors provided seamless integration with existing ecosystems.

### Integrating Large Models and GenAI

Innovation often involves combining technology with effective distribution channels. Leveraging existing distribution channels, like Office's ecosystem, coupled with AI integration, can provide a competitive edge.

### Innovation Always Prevails

While technical innovation is constant, its realization in profitable products is paramount. OpenAI's ChatGPT demonstrates significant technical advancement, potentially overshadowing profit motives.

### Conclusion

Understanding the essence before making choices is critical. Success lies in recognizing genuine market needs and selecting niches where contributions are substantial. While technological admiration exists, it's user adoption that drives success. The future lies in understanding the TO B/C paradigm and making informed decisions.

### TO C Companies List:

- Apple Inc.
- Amazon
- Google
- Meta Platforms (formerly Facebook)
- Microsoft
- Netflix
- Tesla, Inc.
- Twitter
- Snap Inc.
- Airbnb
