---
title:  "Understanding the Importance of Luck"
date:  2024-02-14 2:12:00 +0800
categories:  [Life Beliefs, Insights] 
tags: [Insights]     
author:  00                    
math: true
mermaid: true
comments: true
img_path: /postsPic/
---
### From the `Navalmanack`

Recently, my co-founder Babak Nivi and I discussed the concept of luck on Twitter. We talked about four types of luck.

#### The first type of luck is serendipitous luck,
where an individual's fortune comes entirely from beyond their control and unexpected events, such as receiving unexpected wealth or meeting a benefactor.

#### The second type of luck stems from perseverance, tireless effort, repeated failures and trials, and actively creating opportunities.

You release a vast amount of energy, go all out, move mountains and seas, and push forward relentlessly.
It's like conducting a scientific experiment, mixing different reagents to see what results can be produced. Because of your relentless efforts, continuous advancement, and constant release and accumulation of energy, luck finds you.

#### The third way to obtain good luck is being adept at recognizing it.

If you are skilled and experienced in a particular field, you will be the first to recognize when there is an unexpected breakthrough in that field. At this point, others unfamiliar with the area will be indifferent. This is about increasing your sensitivity to good luck; fortune favors the prepared mind.

#### The fourth type of luck is the most wondrous and rarest,

creating a unique personality, brand, and mindset that attracts luck to you.
Same here.
