---
title:  "Biography of Elon Musk"
date:  2024-02-16 5:58:00 +0800
categories:  [Life Beliefs, Insights] 
tags: [Insights]     
author:  00                    
math: true
mermaid: true
comments: true
img_path: /postsPic/
---
The first book I read this year, "Elon Musk: Tesla, SpaceX, and the Quest for a Fantastic Future," is still in progress, and I'll share insights as I read.

1. "What drives industrialists like Musk to push the world forward is usually not fame or fortune, but a strong sense of mission, dreams and ambitions filled with personal heroism, and a curiosity that is rare among people, lasting a lifetime. Elon Musk's life story, like those of many great industrialists who changed the world, is a legend that belongs to all humanity and remains thrilling every time it is retold in novels or on screen."

2. "Many entrepreneurs care more about making money, whereas Musk cares about the fate of humanity. As the American philosopher Emerson said, 'The world makes way for the man who knows where he is going.' A grand goal provides more social support and a greater margin of error."
(KK’s comment: Aim big. This reminds me of SBF's effective altruism. The bigger the macro vision, the easier it is to deceive everyone. This is a common trait among ambitious individuals.)

3. "He possesses his unique 'first principles' way of thinking. That is, consider everything from its essence first, then deduce backwards from there. With this mindset, you won't lose confidence due to temporary difficulties or engage in futile efforts because you are very clear that your goal is the inevitable result derived from 'first principles'. This rational way of thinking is especially worth learning."
(KK’s comment: First principles, start with the essence.)

4. "He always asks his colleagues to consider the 'path to realization,' rather than debating 'whether it's feasible.' In fact, his way of thinking is to look at the current situation from the perspective of a future vision, which has a certain transcendence."
(KK’s comment: Don’t doubt whether it can be done, think about how to do it.)

5. "Although Silicon Valley operates in a distorted reality and is detached from its collective fantasy, Musk leaves the impression of a controversial figure, a charlatan selling false hopes with electric cars, solar panels, and rockets."

6. "People in Silicon Valley deeply believe in clichés like 'work hard' and 'play hard.' People work all-nighters in their 20s, 30s, 40s, and 50s."
(KK’s comment: Musk is a true workaholic.)

7. "After the internet bubble burst, foolish venture capitalists, to not appear even more foolish, had already stopped funding new projects. Entrepreneurs' grand visions were replaced by narrow-minded views, as if Silicon Valley had entered a dormant period. It sounds incredible, but it actually happened. Millions of geniuses once believed they were creating the future, but suddenly, being cautious became the most common practice."

8. "In the following years, people's goals shifted from creating entirely new industries and great ideas to making quick money by pleasing consumers and mass-producing simple apps and advertisements. 'The best minds of my generation are thinking about how to make people click ads,' said Jeff Hammerbacher, an early engineer at Facebook."
(KK’s comment: This is also what TikTok is doing now, extracting public attention and time.)

9. "We wanted flying cars, not 140 characters."
10. "The science fiction that once sang praises of the future has become dystopian because people no longer optimistically believe that technology can change the world."
(KK’s comment: Now, with the advent of GPT-4, people's imaginations can take flight again. Technological advancement is indeed driven by a minority.)

11. "Although the talk of 'sending humans to Mars' seems utterly foolish, it gives Musk's industrial empire a unique battle cry. Employees of his three companies are well aware of this and clearly know that their day-to-day efforts are aimed at achieving this seemingly impossible goal. Thus, it makes sense that Musk sets unrealistic goals, pushes his employees hard, and speaks harshly to them— to some extent, it's part of the mission to Mars. Some employees like this about him. Even those who dislike him remain loyal due to respect and identification with his motives and mission. Musk's worldview is something many entrepreneurs in Silicon Valley lack. He is a genius with grand ambitions."
(KK’s comment: After Musk's acquisition of Twitter, he adopted a similarly aggressive strategy, introducing a form of exploitation common among domestic capitalists. However, Musk's worldview and ambition naturally garner supporters and loyal employees because he is doing the right thing.)

12. "When asked how he copes with such a demanding work schedule, Musk said, 'I had a rough childhood, which maybe helped me.'"

13. "Riley witnessed him becoming penniless and ridiculed by public opinion. She knew that the pain of those years was still present in Musk's life, mixed with other traumas—a son's death in infancy and a harsh upbringing in South Africa. All these factors together forged a tortured soul."
(KK’s comment: Musk's harsh childhood experiences in South Africa built his mental resilience, much stronger than the average person. His soul is resilient.)
Same here.
