---
title:  "KK's 30 Life Beliefs"
date:  2024-02-14 2:12:00 +0800
categories:  [Life Beliefs, Insights] 
tags: [Insights]     
author:  00                    
math: true
mermaid: true
comments: true
img_path: /postsPic/
---

[@kk](https://mp.weixin.qq.com/s/ydyL2LFnosH7-Z7pIFvxqA)

My thirty life beliefs, written on October 7, 2023, at the end of my 23rd year.

### "General Principles"

1. Be honest, humble, open, learning, and adventurous. Being honest with oneself is the source of all confidence. Revere others, the market, and the laws of nature. Allow everything to happen in an open system, continuously learn from anyone to gain incrementally, and maintain courage to venture through setbacks and pressure.

### "Learning: Sift the Chaff from the Wheat, Convey Effective Information"

2. Only through active learning can one endure the labor of thought and the negation of one's erroneous beliefs. Active learning requires a long-term and strong self-awareness and a stable state of self.

3. Confront your inferiority complex regarding your knowledge structure, eliminate the embarrassment of being exposed for lacking knowledge. Everything can be learned; it's all about attitude.

4. Maintain consistency in coding, writing, and studying mathematics, increase the training set data, enhance model complexity. Humans are like large language models; read extensively high-quality materials, increase information entropy taste, leave the comfort zone, practice the Feynman learning method, continuously process content to sift the chaff from the wheat.

5. Seek friends who can create a synergistic effect (1+1>2) in knowledge structures, interests, and skills by publicly displaying thoughts. The virtual world offers connections several orders of magnitude higher than the physical world, with hundreds of times the efficiency in filtering.

6. Convey effective information. Describe enlightening conclusions rather than processes, connect with possible takeaways for the audience, practicing the Feynman learning method. Attach a description when forwarding articles, provide specific opinions when recommending books, and talk about learning content or journeys, not just statements without information.

### "General Discussion: Life Choices, Energy Management"

7. Changes in life circumstances are nonlinear.

8. Look for asymmetric return opportunities, leverage on low-risk, high-reward activities, and place significant bets.

9. Do not allocate energy to tasks that do not require deep attention; decision-making on daily trivial matters should be quick.

10. Simplify and declutter, process the inbox at a shallow level promptly.

11. In politics, business, and academia, one can only achieve success in one field before exchanging it for another. Do not dwell on or imagine the path not taken. Make firm choices, face repeated failures, and relative success will follow. Avoid being indecisive.

### "Working: 100% Immersion, Follow Objective Laws"

12. Reach the limit with 100% immersion in every task. Set priorities right, excel in one thing at a time, avoid multi-tasking and indecision.

13. Follow objective laws; if the method is correct, the process may be tortuous, but the outcome will be right, have complete confidence.

14. Maintain confidence in uncertainty, increase tolerance.

15. The most important things are time and energy. Do not assume you cannot achieve something; leverage is the only way to exceed the average.

### "Interpersonal Relationships: Admit Mistakes, Separate Issues"

16. Focus on your feelings, learn to refuse, being rejected means the other party made an unreasonable demand, processing the embarrassment of rejection is their task.

17. Be brave in admitting mistakes, always respect objective laws, avoid getting trapped in power struggles in interpersonal relationships, focus on issues not individuals.

18. Do not harbor wishful thinking, do not delegate everything to others, excellence will be noticed and bring results.

19. Accept that all relationships are fluid; having illuminated each other's lives for a time is enough. Once, if they gave you endless recognition, that is enough. Life's journey is too long for harsh judgments. Make good connections, allow divergence and flow, accept with a more peaceful mindset.

20. Draw the energy you need, which is a human instinct. Different stages require different types of energy replenishment. Enjoy the current state.

### "Creation: Flow, Belief, Practice, Spiral Upward"

21. Find your rhythm, don't be swayed by others. The intersection of what you excel at and what you love is the career you'll tirelessly pursue for a lifetime.

22. You can only become an expert within a limited moat; don't scatter your energy. Understand universal rules, commit to specialized rules. When it's time to transition, generalize those rules.

23. Completion is more important than perfection, speed up completion
