---
title:  "The Navalmanack"
date:  2024-02-16 5:58:00 +0800
categories:  [Life Beliefs, Insights] 
tags: [Insights]     
author:  00                    
math: true
mermaid: true
comments: true
img_path: /postsPic/
---
Study microeconomics, game theory, psychology, rhetoric, ethics, mathematics, and computer science. ​​​

My definition of wealth is businesses and assets that generate income even while you sleep.

You're competing against yourself; it's a single-player game.

Being good at arithmetic and geometry is much more useful than delving into advanced mathematics. Thus, I suggest spending more time reading microeconomics—start with introductory courses.

Read the classics in mathematics, science, and philosophy. Avoid bestsellers and news. Stay away from any so-called "book clubs" and the pursuit of community identity. Prioritize truth over community identity.

Calculus helps us understand and perceive the speed of change and the workings of the natural world, but more importantly, it's essential to grasp the principles of calculus. Calculus measures change through small discrete or continuous events.


Highly intelligent people tend to be nonconformist, insisting on thinking independently and doing things themselves to understand the ins and outs of a situation. 
Contrarian investors are not always against everything; in fact, being against everything is another form of conventionality. Contrarian investors think independently based on the actual situation, able to withstand the pressure of blind conformity. It's easy to be cynical and go with the flow. Being an optimistic contrarian investor is truly rare.

Learn logic and mathematics. Once you've mastered logic and mathematics, no book in the library should be intimidating,
whether it's about mathematics, physics, electrical engineering, sociology, or economics. You should not fear reading any book on the shelf. Some may be challenging for you, but that's okay; you should keep reading them whenever you get the chance, over and over again.
Same here.
