---
title:  "Advice for My Junior"
date:  2024-02-14 2:12:00 +0800
categories:  [Life Beliefs, Planning] 
tags: [Planning]    
author:  00                    
math: true
mermaid: true
comments: true
img_path: /postsPic/
---
### What I told my junior today,<br>

1. Cherish your time as an undergraduate at Stanford; this is the most privileged period of your life. Even if you become successful after 40 (unlikely), you won't have the same access to professors and resources as you do now, where you can directly contact any professor or access various resources just by reaching out.<br>
2. Be direct. Say what you want without feeling embarrassed or the need to disguise your intentions. Professors have seen it all and receive dozens of emails daily. What do you want that they wouldn't understand?<br>
   Better to be straightforward. Tell them you want to stay in the US after graduation and need a job opportunity. Tell them you want to meet more people in a certain field, or what interests you. As a Stanford undergraduate, you'll get what you ask for from everyone.<br>
3. Schedule a chat with a professor at least once a week. Talking to them is a no-cost, no-risk, entirely benign affair: what do you have to lose?<br>
   But, if one of them recognizes your talent and provides you with potential opportunities, it's far better than working at some prestigious company.<br> 
4. Don't go for the winter internship introduced by your family. Regardless of the company, the internship project itself is meaningless,<br>
   The only purpose of work is to have your achievements seen by influential and resourceful people, which you'll hardly meet working in a factory.<br>
5. Your boss is just another cog in the machine, a target for the next round of layoffs. Meanwhile, every tenured professor you meet at Stanford belongs to an entirely different class.<br>
6. Go to Harvard. Contact professors at Harvard or other top schools on the East Coast. They are closer to the core of American power and the political and business worlds,<br>
   The East Coast is where power truly resides, while Stanford and California are just places where some left-wing techies make money and vacation. (This applies specifically to his study of history and economics, not computer science)<br>
7. Gain visibility early. Not suggesting becoming an internet celebrity, but being "seen" early matters. The effect of time is different. If you meet A on Monday, B on Tuesday, C on Wednesday, work on Thursday and Friday, you can organize a gathering with ABC over the weekend (if they are connected).<br>
   But if you delay meeting ABC until the weekend, you lose that opportunity. The same goes for letting others know you. (Referenced examples from our experience)<br>
8. "Do good and do not inquire about the future."<br>

Going to sleep. Been busy lately, might write some serious stuff. It's a kind of fate to meet on the internet, wishing everyone good food and good sleep. (I eat well at Wilbur.)<br>
Same here.
