---
title:  "Sam Altman's 2023 Year-End Summary"
date:  2024-02-16 5:58:00 +0800
categories:  [Life Beliefs, Insights] 
tags: [Insights]     
author:  00                    
math: true
mermaid: true
comments: true
img_path: /postsPic/
---
by @yushi- sjtu-cmu msml<br>
Several valuable takeaways from Sam Altman's 2023 year-end summary, "What I Wish Someone Had Told Me":<br>

1. Optimism, obsession, self-belief, raw horsepower, and personal connections are how things get started. Optimism, perseverance, confidence, intrinsic motivation, and interpersonal relationships are the beginning of everything.<br>

5. Concentrate your resources on a small number of high-conviction bets; this is easy to say but evidently hard to do. You can eliminate more than you think.<br>
Focus your resources on a few endeavors you deeply believe in; it sounds simple, but it's challenging to execute. You can cut out more than you imagine.<br>

10. Superstars are even more valuable than they seem, but you have to evaluate people on their net impact on the performance of the organization. <br>
Superstars are more valuable than you think, but their evaluation should be based on their actual impact on the organization's performance.<br>

13. Inspiration is perishable, and life goes by fast. Inaction is a particularly insidious type of risk. <br>
Inspiration is fleeting, and life is short. Not taking action is a particularly covert risk.<br>

14. Scale often has surprising emergent properties. <br>
Scaling often results in unexpected new characteristics.<br>

15. Compounding exponentials are magical. In particular, you really want to build a business that gets a compounding advantage with scale. <br>
The magic of compounding interest is real. Especially, aim to create a business that benefits exponentially from scaling.<br>

16. Get back up and keep going. <br>
Fall down, get up, and continue moving forward.<br>

17. Working with great people is one of the best parts of life. <br>
Collaborating with excellent individuals is one of life's greatest joys.<br>
Same here.
