---
title:  "Some Great Resources and Role Models"
date:  2024-02-14 2:12:00 +0800
categories:  [Resources, Something that might work for you.] 
tags: [Something that might work for you.]     
author:  00                    
math: true
mermaid: true
comments: true
pin: true
---

### [Shanghai Jiao Tong University - Survival Manual](https://survivesjtu.gitbook.io/survivesjtumanual/)

The Shanghai Jiao Tong University Survival Manual was written in 2008 by a group of SJTU undergraduates. Twelve years have passed, and countless SJTU students have benefited from it. However, some content may have become outdated, as the original author team mainly consisted of individuals pursuing PhDs abroad. This manual lacks information on domestic advancement and employment. The project aims to publish it as a gitbook and maintain it long-term, hoping to offer slight assistance to future SJTU students, especially incoming freshmen. A special thanks to the original authors of the book!

### [The Crest of the Wave Club](https://confused-gym-8fc.notion.site/dc7ab3f3ddad46fea4de7ff995a7a4ab)

Initiated by KK, The Crest of the Wave Club is a lifelong learners club and also a podcast program managed by KK. Named after the book by Wu Jun, standing on the verge of a disruptive technological revolution brought about by artificial intelligence (LLM, large language models) right before the launch of GPT-4 in 2023. Young people looking to grasp the era's wave, capture new technology and its value, and find a path to freedom (including but not limited to financial freedom, and the health, time, and will freedom it brings). With awe for technology and an endless exploration of life's possibilities, we conduct educational lectures (embodying the learning by sharing philosophy, building a shared Notion knowledge base) and interview-style podcast programs (delving deep into the era's most creative and individualistic people) to complete an interesting social experiment.

### [Free Investor - Silicon Valley - Wang Chuan](https://chuan.us/)
(All articles represent the author's personal opinions and do not constitute investment advice. Investing involves risks, enter the market with caution.)

### [ZYX50 Rules @VicodinXYZ](https://weibo.com/u/1977585731)
"My Life Beliefs"

As a summary of a phase in life, I have condensed the things I've pondered over the years into 50 statements. They are derived from my slow realization through repeated failures, confusion, and changes. The title is chosen because these are my personal experiences, which may be very biased and incorrect, but they have indeed become a part of me:

1. Regardless of how 'success' is defined, those who achieve it are in the minority;

2. (Therefore) one cannot achieve success by doing what most people do;

3. You are the average of the five people you spend the most time with;

4. The lower limit of a person's level is determined by the worst five entities they learn from;

5. Only learn from the best, others do not know what they are doing. Ignore their "advice";

6. The first priority in decision-making is to create enough good options for oneself. Most decision failures come from vacillating among several inadequate choices;

7. For daily minor decisions, decision speed is more important than decision quality, do not delay; for major and irreversible decisions, collect enough information to ensure correctness;

8. Do not make judgments or decisions before reaching the threshold of information gathering. Often say "I don't know" to yourself and others;

9. Not every problem in life needs to be solved, coexisting with problems is a normal state of life. Focus your energy on important matters;

10. Do not equate the outcome of a decision with the quality of the decision. Learn to build your own decision-making system;

11. Look for "asymmetric return" opportunities, where the loss is minimal if you fail, but the reward is huge if successful;

12. Better opportunities are those where "there's a slight linear return if you fail, but a massive exponential return if you succeed," though such opportunities are rare;

13. Changes in a person's circumstances are often nonlinear. The accumulation and waiting process is hard, which is one of the reasons many people do not change;

14. (Therefore) Patience is a very valuable quality to have;

15. A person's situation is largely governed by luck, but luck can be influenced;

16. It's difficult for people to amass wealth by selling their time;

17. Wealth comes from leveraging resources, common levers include the internet, manpower, capital, reputation, time, etc.;

18. The accumulation of wealth is not just about how many decisions you make right, but also about how
